# rsa_program

This project was designed by and completed under the guidance of Professor 
Elisabeth Stade at the University of Colorado Boulder as part of her course
in discrete mathematics. The ideas for this simplified version of the RSA
Algorithm come from Kenneth H. Rosen's [Discrete Mathematics and its Applications] 
(https://www.amazon.com/Discrete-Mathematics-Its-Applications-Seventh/dp/0073383090). 
All code implementations and comments are my own. 

To run this program, in terminal:

```
> python3 rsa_program.py
```

This will initiate a user interface with four options: (1) Get Keys,
(2) Encode, (3) Decode, and (4) Quit Program. To encrypt a message, 
first enter 1 to select Get Keys. You will need two prime numbers to
generate your keys. Enter these prime numbers for 'p' and 'q' when
prompted to do so. For example, p = 43 and q = 59. This will generate
your public and private keys, each of which consist of two numbers.
The first of these two numbers is the same for both your public and private
keys; that is 'n', which is generated by multiplying p*q (so, in our example,
n = (43)*(59) = 2537). The second number should be unique to your public
and private keys. That is the value 'e' (for 'encryptor') in your public key
and the value 'd' (for 'decryptor') in your private key. Write down your 
public and private keys for future use. In our example, I would write down:

Public Key (n, e): (2537, 167)
Private Key (n, d): (2537, 671) 

Now you can encrypt a message. Using the user interface, enter 2 to select
Encode. You will need to enter your public key. First enter your value
for n, then enter your value for e. Next, enter a short message to encrypt.
I suggest something simple, like your first name. The program will interpret
each letter of your input as its numerical ASCII value. It will raise
each of these individual values to the power of 'e'. Next, it will divide 
each of these values by 'n' and note the remainder. This is referred to
as modular arithmetic. The program will then output these values as an array,
one for each letter of your input. This is your encrypted message. In our 
example, inputting "Cody" would result in the ASCII values C = 67, o = 111,
d = 100 and y = 121. Performing the operations described above on these
values would then yield the following, encrypted output: 

Cipher Text: [1514, 2138, 2190, 2080]

To decrypt this message, copy the array above and then enter 3 in the user
interface to select Decode. You will need to enter your private key values 
for 'n' and 'd' when prompted. Next, enter your array of encrypted letters.
For each value in your encrypted array, the program will raise this value to
the power of 'd'. Next, the program will then divide each of these values
by 'n' and output the remainder of this division. Seemingly by magic, these
outputs match the ASCII values of the original input. Our program interprets
these ASCII values as letters, and outputs our original message. Congratulations! 
You have performed simplified RSA encryption and decryption. Enter 4 to exit
the program. 

For a detailed description of why this works and the algorithms used in my 
program to select values for 'e' and 'd', see Chapter 4 of Rosen's book
and especially pages 209-302. 
